# Class 2.02

[Return Home](https://rachaelh25.github.io/reading-notes/)

## Intro to HTML: Continued-

**1. Why is it important to use semantic elements in our HTML?**

To reinforce the semantics/meaning of the html used to develoop the webpage.
We rely on them to tell us what the function of something is, when we see it we know what will happen with it. Using the correct element that gives the content the correct meaning, function and appearance.

> E.g the < h1> element is a semantic element that gives the text it is wrapped around the role/meaning of a first header/top level heading on the page.

**2. How many levels of headings are there in HTML?**  
There are 6 levels of headings in HTML.

**3. What are some uses for the < sup> and < sub> elements?**  
The `<sup>` element makes a character smaller and aligns it towards the top of the line. Like squaring and cubing numbers for example.

> e.g.  
> `5<sup>2</sup>` would show as 5 squared.

The `<sub>` element does the same as above but instead of aligning to the top of the line it aligns to the bottom. This presents as chemical formulas for example.

> e.g  
> `H<sub>2</sub>O` would show as the chemical formula for water.

**4. When using the < abbr> element, what attribute must be added to provide the full expansion of the term?**

The _title_ attribute should be used to provide the full exapnsion of the abbreviated term in the < abbr> element.

## Learn CSS

**1. What are ways we can apply CSS to our HTML?**

-   External Stylesheet:  
     Contains CSS in a separate file with a .css extension that is then attached to the HTML file via the < link> element. This should be in the head section of the HTML and after any reset.css files.

-   Internal Stylesheet  
     This is inside the HTML file but all inside a < style> element, likely in the head. This does not separate concerns and can make the HTML hard to read.

-   Inline Styles  
     These are declarations that affect individual HTML elements contained within a style attribute within the element. This can also make HTML more difficult to read.

**2. Why should we avoid using inline styles?**  
It is best practise to separate our concerns, meaning to have separate pages for different types of coding like html, css and JS.  
This makes the code easier to read and edit as well as making it less complicated and prone to errors.

**3. Review the block of code below and answer the following questions:**

> h2 {color: black; padding: 5px;}

-   **What is representing the selector?**  
     h2 is the selector which attaches the style in the style sheet to the h2 element in the html sheet.

-   **Which components are the CSS declarations?**  
     The CSS declaration is the color and padding components which target these aspects of the style and allow the coder to attach values to them.

-   **Which components are considered properties?**  
     The components of the above code that are considered properties are the values given to the declarations like black being the colour and 5px given to the padding.

## Learn JS

### JavaScript Basics

**1. What data type is a sequence of text enclosed in single quote marks?**  
A string.

**2. List 4 types of JavaScript operators.**  
i. Arithmetic Operators- used to perform arithmetic on numbers.

> E.g. \* is multiplication, ++ is increment.

ii. Comparison Operators- used to compare values to one another. Used to determine equality or difference between variables or values.

> E.g. === is strictly equal to, != is not equal to, <= is less than or equal to.

iii. Logical Operators- In additon to Comparison Operators, Logical Operators are used to test for true or false values. Used to determine the logic between variables or values.

> E.g. && is and, || is or and ! is not.

iv. Assignment Operators- assigns value to a variable.

> E.g. let x = 10. Assigns a value of ten to the variable x.

**3. Describe a real world Problem you could solve with a Function.**  
Functions package functionality that will be reused. It is possible to define a body of code as a function that executes when you clal the function name in the code. This can help solve the problem of repeatedly writing the same code.

### Decisions in your code- Conditionals

**1.** An if statement checks a **conditional** and if it evaluates to **true**, then the code block will execute.

**2. What is the use of an else if?**  
The else if statement gives the possibility of more than two choices or outcomes.

**3. List 3 different types of comparison operators.**  
<= Less than or equal to.  
== equal to  
!= not equal to

**4. What is the difference between the logical operator && and ||?**  
**&&** means 'and' joining two components together.  
**||** means 'or' contrasting two components.
