# Class 2.01

[Return Home](https://rachaelh25.github.io/reading-notes/)

## Getting Started

**1. Compose a short poem describing how HTTP sends data between computers.**

- no, thank you.

**2. Describe how HTML, CSS, and JS files are “parsed” in the browser.**  
 Parsing is the step the browser takes to turn the data it recieves over the internet into the DOM (Document Object Model) and the CSS Object Model, which are used by the renderer to paint a page to the screen.

- **HTML** files are parsed first by the browser and so can recognise the link element references to external CSS sheets and any script elements.
- Then browser sends requests back to the server for any CSS and JavaScript files that it has found from the link and script elements. It then parses the **CSS** and **JS**.

**3. How can you find images to add to a Website?**

- Search for a suitable image using a search engine. Click to enlarge. Save image onto your computer to later add to projects.
- Images can be dropped into folders in VS Code.

**4. How do you create a String vs a Number in JavaScript?**

- Strings are within quotation marks and numbers are not. Numbers can be strings but strings cannot be numbers.

**5. What is a Variable and why are they important in JavaScript?**

- Variables are important in JS because they are necessary to do anything in programming.
- Because using variables means that values can change, it allows for things to become more dynamic and personalised.

## Intro to HTML

**1. What is an HTML attribute?**

- Attributes in HTML are sections of the element that contain extra information about the element that won't appear in the content

  > E.g. < p class="editor note"> content </ p>  
  > The class attribute is an identifying name used to target the element with style information.

**2. Describe the Anatomy of an HTMl element.**

> < opening-tag> content </ closing-tag>

**3. What is the Difference between < article> and < section> element tags?**

- an < article> encloses a block of related content that makes sense on its own without the rest o the page. (e.g. a single blog post)
- a < section> is similar to < article>, but instead groups together a single part of the page that consitutes one single piece of functionality or theme. (e.g. mini map or set of article headlines and summaries)
- You can break _articles_ into _sections_ and _sections_ into _articles_.

**4. What Elements does a “typical” website include?**
Some of the elements included in a typical website are:

- < header>, < body>, < footer>
- < main>, < article>, < section>, < nav>

**5. How does metadata influence Search Engine Optimization?**  
Specifying a description, in the header tags metadata, that includes keywords relating to the content of your page is useful as it has the potential to make your page appear higher in the relevant searches on search engines.

**6. How is the < meta> HTML tag used when specifying metadata?**  
Metadata is data that describes data and is included in HTML with the < meta> element.

> e.g. < meta charset="utf-8" />  
> specifies the document' character encoding (character set that the doc is permitted to use).  
> _utf-8_ is a universal character that when included in your HTML means that your web page can handle displaying any language.

## Miscellaneous

### How to start designing a website

**1. What is the first step to designing a Website?**  
The first step in designing a website should be creating a wireframe. _Wireframes_ are visual guides that represents the skeleton framework of a website.

**2. What is the most important question to answer when designing a Website?**

- **_What exactly do you want to accomplish?_**
- Project ideation is a necessary first step to reach your goals no matter where you are in your web development journey.

### Semantics

**1. Why should you use an < h1> element over a < span> element to display a top level heading?**  
The < h> tag gives the content that it wraps around the _role_ of a top level heading on the page, as opposed to the < span> tag that only gives it the _look_ of a top level heading with no semantic value and so no benefits that the semantic value gives the content.

**2. What are the benefits of using semantic tags in our HTML?**  
Some of the benefits from writing semantic markup are as follows:

- Search engines will consider its contents as important keywords to influence the page's search rankings.
- Screen readers can use it as a signpost to help visually impaired users navigate a page.
- Finding blocks of meaningful code is significantly easier than searching through endless divs with or without semantic or namespaced classes.
- Suggests to the developer the type of data that will be populated.
- Semantic naming mirrors proper custom element/component naming.

### What is JavaScript?

**1. Describe 2 things that require JavaScript in the Browser?**  
i.
ii.

**2. How can you add JavaScript to an HTML document?**  
JS can be added to a HTML document through the use of a < script> tag which links to an external JS sheet containing the necessary JavaScript for the project.  
Another method is to add JavaScript directly into the HTML using the same tag but this time adding the JS directly into the tag. This method is best executed at the bottom of the HTML, after the footer but within the body tags.

---

## Things I want to know more about
